perfSONAR-PS

perfSONAR-PS is a set of independent software services that implement the perfSONAR protocols for network performance monitoring.  perfSONAR-PS services are designed to be compatible with all other perfSONAR software that implements the perfSONAR protocols. perfSONAR-PS is able to federate between deployments, particularly those that span multiple domains, making the job of solving end-to-end performance problems on paths crossing several networks much easier to address.  

The perfSONAR-PS services provide Web Services (WS) based interfaces into already deployed network monitoring infrastructures and act as an intermediate layer, between the performance measurement tools and the diagnostic or visualization applications.  The targeted audience for these services is network Network Operation Centers (NOCs) at Universities and Regional networks, however these services are broadly useful to the general public at large.  

The perfSONAR-PS software suite is developed entirely in the Perl programming language, taking full advantage of numerous language features and benefits including the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network (CPAN) distribution system.  This software manager makes perfSONAR-PS the ideal choice for integration into typical NOC environments.  

This first major release of the perfSONAR-PS software package features several key and distinct products that will integrate within a new or existing perfSONAR deployment.

  - SNMP Measurement Archive
  - Lookup Service
  - Topology Service
  - Circuit Status Measurement Archive
  - Status Measurement Archive
  - perfSONARBOUY
  - PingER Services

Each product contains distinct features that add value to the perfSONAR framework, many integrating with existing measurement tools to provide a more comprehensive solution to network performance monitoring.

SNMP Measurement Archive

The perfSONAR-PS SNMP based Measurement Archive (SNMP MA) is able to expose  data collected via variables from the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) protocol found on networked devices and stored in Round Robin Databases (RRD) archives.  The measurements are collected through external means, normally through software such as MRTG, CACTI, or Cricket, and is commonly stored in RRD archives.  External access to commonly requested data items, remains challening due to physical and political boundaries.  

The SNMP MA provides a simple interface that is cable of exposing these files after basic configuration for consumption by perfSONAR client applications and services alike.  The Web Service front end provides a uniform method of access using the perfSONAR XML protocols and delivers the data in an unambiguous manner, thus eliminating the mystery associated with the backend storage.  



Lookup Service

The perfSONAR-PS Lookup Service (LS) addresses the always challenging problem of resource registration and discovery for the perfSONAR framework.  Service instances that manage datasets are only useful when they can be contacted by consumers.  Consumers can only function when there is data available.  To manage these problems in a dynamic environment such as perfSONAR, it is necessary to register, maintain, and query for the services that may contain interesting data.

The perfSONAR-PS LS relies on an XML database, Oracle DB XML, to store service registration information in a native manner.  Using the power of the XPath and XQuery standards it is then possible for client applications and services alike to query for information in a uniform and powerful manner.  All perfSONAR services are capable of registering information with an LS instantiation, thus deploying this service within your framework is paramount.  



Topology Service

The perfSONAR-PS Topology Service provides the ability for administrators to
make topology information about their networks available to remote clients.
Client applications and services can be written that use the Xquery language
to perform arbitrarily complex queries against the data stored in the
database. The Topology information returned by the topology service follows
the perfSONAR Topology XML schema being developed in coordination with the the
DICE Control Plane Working Group. The Topology Service stores the topology
information in the Oracle Berkeley XML Database.

Status Measurement Archive

The Status Measurement Archive provides a way for an administrator to provide
layer2 link status information to remote clients. This information can be
obtained via a polling service that can use SNMP, or scripts to collect the
link status information, and stores it into a SQL database. The technique used
to store the information helps minimize the storage requirements of rarely
changing links.

Circuit Status Service

E2EMon is a commonly used service that provides a webpage containing status
information about inter-domain circuits. In order to produce the webpage, the
service requests the complete state of each domain in the circuits it has an
interest in and then correlates this information to produce end-to-end
statistics. This Circuit Status service uses the Status Measurement Archive
and can use the Topology Service to provide the complete domain status
required by the E2EMon service.

perfSONARBUOY

The perfSONARBUOY service is used to expose an archive of active
measurement data, making the results of regularly scheduled tests
available using perfSONAR web services interfaces. I gives the administrator
the ability to schedule a set of tests and expose all the data collected.
perfSONARBUOY will only be available as a web accessible
prototype in this release. OWAMP and BWCTL test results from active tests
between network observatory systems on the Internet2 network will be
featured in this prototype.


PingER Services

The perfSONAR-PS PingER service is an evolution of the PingER project (http://www-iepm.slac.stanford.edu/pinger/) with more than 10 years experience in collecting and analysising network performance across the world. 
The perfSONAR-PS PingER service is composed of both a storage backend (MA) and measurement frontend (MP) to conduct and store ping measurements and to make available such data for consumption by interested parties.
Network characteristics supported include availability, latency and jitter, which provide a broad spectrum of determining end-to-end network performance.

perfSONAR-PS PingER is designed to be scalable enough in order to accommodate hundreds of monitored pairs of hosts and uses a relational database backend (MySQL, Postgres, SQLite) to efficiently store and retrieve such performance information.

perfSONAR-PS PingER also supports the registration of data through perfSONAR LS's to faciliate the dynamic discovery and querying of unknown deployments.

The MA provides a web service interface based on NMWG XML that allows queries on the PingER data and to be consumpted by perfSONAR client applications and services alike.


